♪ (AUSTERE MUSIC PLAYS) ♪
LORD MASSEN: It came
three years ago.
SPEAKER 1: There are hundreds
of unique,
inexplicable afflictions.
You're declaring the Touched
a direct threat
against the empire.
SPEAKER 2: Mrs. True
runs the orphanage.
Plenty of girls
have been shown a strangeness.
PENANCE ADAIR:
We've come to help.
TUNNEL FOREMAN: Detective Mundy,
you're gonna wanna see this.
-What, me?
-With your pagan sex club.
With a certain investor,
The Ferryman's Club
will become a phenomenon.
♪ (MUSIC ENDS ABRUPTLY) ♪
-(MUFFLED SCREAMING)
-(GRUNTS)
-(MECHANISM CLICKS)
-♪ (DRUMBEATS) ♪
Who's hunting the Touched,
and why?
♪ (MUSIC SWELLS) ♪
How are we gonna deal with
those fellas?
We're going to the opera.
(BLADE SWISHING)
(AUDIENCE SCREAMING, GASPING)
(GUNFIRE)
♪ (EERIE VOICE SINGING) ♪
(GASPS)
(DISTANT SCREAMING)
Just let me have the girl.
(ECHOING) Just let me
have the girl...
♪ (MUSIC ABRUPTLY ENDS) ♪
PENANCE: We find Mary.
We get her singin'.
-♪ (SOFT PIANO MUSIC PLAYS) ♪
-All of the Touched,
they'll all come to us.
♪ (MUSIC CONCLUDES) ♪
♪
Rosa:
The Touched are everywhere.
The whole city's
talking about it.
The newspapers make money
by frightening people.
There cannot be so many of them.
But how are we knowing?
They look normal.
And anyhow, I wouldn't
hate to be Touched.
-Oh, don't, don't--
-No, not like the Maladie,
but with a nice, um, a "turn"?
Make silk from cotton.
Or to make Danny Kent
fall in love to you.
(giggles softly)
You promised
not to say anything.
And it's fall in love "with" me.
Fall for, fall in love with,
make love to...
I think love confuses
the English.
(speaking Italian)
(chuckles)
Mr. Oldenham:
Oh.
Your gloves, Miss Cassini.
-They are clean.
-Oh.
But no longer white.
Oh, yes.
And rather threadbare.
Jones & Jackson only provide
the first pair, you know.
I am saving up.
Yes.
A few nights off
the beef and pudding,
help your
appearance altogether.
Although there is a little café
on the Dalton Lane, if you--
This is too gay.
I'd like to look at
something more autumnal.
The city is in mourning,
you know.
-Since the massacre?
-Of course. Of course.
Miss Cassini.
The feathers.
(gasps softly)
♪
Oh!
Customer:
Oh, my God.
She's Touched!
-(soft indistinct chatter)
-Customer: She's one of them.
-Woman 1: That girl's Touched.
-Woman 2: That one!
Mr. Oldenham:
Stay there, Miss Cassini.
Miss Cassini!
Stay right there.
Stop her!
(grunts) Ooh!
-Stop her!
-What's going on?
♪
(man grunts)
(whimsical music playing)
(yelling, screaming)
(panting)
(exhales)
♪
(theme music playing)
-Right, let's go, boys!
-(whistle blowing)
Officer:
Stand back! Get out of the way!
(cops shouting)
(screams)
(grunts)
Cop:
Out of the way!
Get out of the way. Get up.
(indistinct shouting)
Cop:
Everyone out!
(distant shouting)
Cop:
Check the workshop!
(banging, clattering)
-(grunting)
-(pounding)
Did you wipe your feet?
(speaks foreign languages)
Frank:
Everyone just stay calm.
-These men have been horrid.
-Whoa.
-Lucy: Oh, Primrose!
-Orphan: What's happening?
They were looking
at my underthings.
Amalia:
And what do they expect
to find there?
You Amalia True?
Why are your men looking through
a young lady's personals?
It's common practice
among criminals to hide things
where a decent person
wouldn't look.
You're not among criminals,
Mister...
Inspector Mundi.
Scotland Yard.
I have a warrant to search
the premises,
and I'll need the workshop
outside unlocked.
Frankie Mundi.
You're the one likes
knocking suspects about.
Even though they's
as innocent as Christmas.
What do they do to set you off?
They call me "Frankie."
We occupy three
adjoining properties.
This applies only
to The Orphanage.
Not to the workshop.
Shall we speak apart?
-Do you need me?
-We're all right.
You're with the Special Detail
hunting Maladie.
Since you're here, I can assume
you're no closer to finding her.
Frank:
She disappeared from
under the opera house,
as did you.
Amalia:
I tried to stop her. I failed.
I didn't much feel like
talking about it.
Frank:
Or retrieving your gown.
It got caught on something.
Like Cinderella's shoe.
Please tell me you've been
trying it on every girl
in the kingdom
to see who it fits.
Do you often engage
in public violence,
Mrs. True?
Would you give over violence?
She put her life at risk
to save dozens of others.
She handed you
one of Maladie's gang.
The great big rifleman.
And followed Maladie out,
without surprise.
Or natural feminine restraint.
We have this from
a reliable witness.
Would that be the man
with his cock out?
Probably.
Is Lord Swann implying
I'm in the gang?
With Bonfire Annie nearly
settin' her hair ablaze?
I prefer to talk
to Mrs. True alone.
So would I.
Do you know...
Mary Brighton?
Then how come you tried
to save her?
I suspected no one else would.
-Is Mary like you?
-Violent?
Touched.
You don't want her to be.
Inspector, she is Touched,
but I can assure you,
she is nothing like me.
She's wonderful.
-How are you not wonderful?
-What's her "turn"?
I thought you were
after Maladie.
We all want Miss Brighton safe.
-Work with us--
-Our men will find Maladie.
In Primrose's drawers?
What is Mary's "turn"?
(speaks foreign languages)
Ladies, do not speak
another word.
This loathsome charade
is over.
Miss Bidlow.
I'm here on a warrant,
signed by Judge Ditton--
The commissioner of police
was shocked to hear
that Judge Ditton had
overstepped so egregiously.
He seemed confident, however,
that neither you nor your men
would bear the brunt
of the blame.
-Mrs. True.
-Inspector.
Arigato.
-How did you know the police--
-I had rather expected it.
I was surprised it took them
all of two days.
Did they really think
we had Maladie
sleepin' in a sock drawer?
Three of the Touched
declared war on society.
Right now, every one of us--
of you-- is suspect.
Lucy Best can break things
by touching them.
-Primrose Chattoway--
-Primrose is a child,
and meek as a kitten.
When a kitten reaches 10 feet,
you call it a tiger.
I shouldn't have to
explain this to you.
So who set the police on us?
Inspector Mundi clearly
has a personal interest
in Mary Brighton.
He couldn't have
authorized it himself.
The superintendent
was pressured from above.
But he wouldn't tell me
by whom.
What about Lord Massen?
I didn't realize when we met
what a... name he was.
"A voice of
conservative Parliament."
Anti-union,
anti-Suffragism,
anti-Belgian...
Gilbert Massen and I
agree on almost nothing.
It is the bedrock
of our friendship.
But he's never mentioned
my work here.
Although, after
Maladie's debut...
Any luck tracking her down?
I have people looking.
I'd prefer to be one of them.
Lavinia:
Well, I'm here on
a different mission.
Not for you,
but for Miss Adair.
There is, in my circle,
a monthly charitable fete.
There are philanthropists,
lecturers...
The best families attend.
Men of influence,
with wives of actual influence.
This afternoon,
it's to be at my estate.
I thought everyone
was in a panic.
It's society.
Doing nothing is how we panic.
And it presents
a good opportunity
to put a pleasing face
on London's new bogeyman.
A few attractive girls
showing off their "turns,"
and their good manners,
to society's elite.
It may seem trite to you,
but public opinion
is a brush fire.
And we must come to them
to stop them barging in on us.
Amalia:
She's right.
Besides, it's a party.
Bring a few of your charges
to my estate,
no later than 2:00.
I assume your estate
is quite large, then?
I suppose.
Good. 'Cause I'll be
bringing the tiger.
General Pecking wants to make it
a military matter.
Have the infantry
patrolling the city.
I'm exhausted by the ways
that would go wrong.
(scoffs)
At least the public would--
This is not about saving face.
Maladie has done us a favor.
She turned sentiment
against the Touched,
but keeps attention on herself.
And the rest of the group
are firmly with you now.
No one doubts
we're under attack.
Lord Broughton:
The House is going to nominate
a special committee
on the Touched,
which after careful
vetting, will be us.
Prime Minister's going to move
the motion himself.
Good for him.
How many nephews
did we have to hire?
(chuckles)
Two.
I'll keep a statement
on the shooting vague
and wrothful.
No mention of Amalia True.
Lord Broughton:
Of course not.
Broome:
Mrs. True made more of
an impression on you
than Maladie did.
Lord Broughton:
Do you think she's at the root
of our feminine plague?
Or in league with whoever is?
I don't know.
But she's not a fool.
And she's not a fucking baker.
-(liquid pouring)
-Swann.
Lord Massen.
You're up early.
I can leave my coffin by day,
if the smog's thick enough.
You haven't read it?
The Irishman, Bram Stoker.
It's a clever
epistolary fantasia,
-all about--
-I heard an ugly rumor
the other day.
Well, all rumors
are ugly, Massen.
No one whispers about virtue.
You're turning your
Ferryman's Club
into an actual business.
Oh, this is awkward. Uh...
I'm afraid there's already
a waiting list.
-But if you like--
-And you have,
among your entertainers,
a few of the afflicted.
They're all in excellent health.
But thank you
for the concern.
I realize that
the unsavory antics
at your loathsome soirées
may have given you leverage
over several in our circle,
but you cannot think
to operate in a public arena.
Especially with the Touched.
-Well, there's no law
against them.
-(sighs)
There's been a massacre, Swann.
Society will not abide
your pandering,
-if it thinks that--
-Requests for membership
to the Ferryman's
have doubled since the opera.
Horror and fascination
go arm in arm.
(exhales)
You should have read
the Stoker.
If your father were to learn
-that you--
-My father approved
of the whole venture.
-(liquid pouring)
-And then he put
a jam roll in his pocket,
and went looking for
his childhood dog.
(glass rattling)
(breathing heavily)
(exhales)
I should warn you--
I play a lot of squash.
Alastair Swann had one of
the finest minds in England.
To make light of its
tragic dissolution
is beneath even you.
Oh, I remember his fine mind.
And his fine fists.
I may not be the fighter
my brother was,
but I've had my lessons.
The Ferryman's opens tonight.
And as for the Touched,
well, they have a right
to earn a living.
I doubt even you
can change that.
I used to think your father's
mind went to field
because your brother
Caleb drowned.
(scoffs)
More likely, it's because...
you didn't.
Well, I assure you,
you're about to.
(footsteps departing)
(exhales)
-(laughter, indistinct chatter)
-Amalia: Harriet.
Aye. Her "turn's" charming.
Myrtle.
Primrose never goes out.
Shy about her stature.
-Myrtle calms her.
-All right.
-Wendy?
-Bendy Wendy.
That's a rotten thing to--
No, it, it's, it's fair.
And it rhymes.
I suppose her contorting's
a bit...
-Alarming?
-...intimate for
mixed company.
Amalia:
Lucy.
I'm not ruling out
another attack,
especially with Myrtle
in the mix.
I'm sure Lavinia has security,
but Lucy's ours.
Do you ever wonder
why Miss Bidlow
started The Orphanage
that she's never comfortable in?
I'm not sure
she's comfortable anywhere.
She didn't pick this cause
out of a hat.
She knows what
it's like to be dismissed.
Couple of new things,
in case you find Maladie
before we're back from
Lavinia's party.
-Think someone
already invented these.
-Mmm.
-(inhales sharply)
-(blinder pops)
(sighs)
I'm hoping they'll work
against Maladie's awful
eye glow. Can't say, but--
Amalia:
Until we understand
her "turn," it can't hurt.
Besides, these are wonderful.
Now this is for
Bonfire Annie.
She gets all fired up,
-she gets this.
-(machine charging)
(vibrating)
-(pops)
-Oh!
Evildoers beware.
It's, it's only a prototype.
(power whirring)
(murmurs, yells)
-(Penance whimpering)
-(powering down)
-Rosa: Elisabetta!
-(gasps)
(both speaking Italian)
-(distant horn honks)
-(running footsteps)
-(exhales)
-She's in here!
(cops yelling, chattering)
Rosa:
In the back!
-She's getting away!
-Cop: Come on!
-(crates thudding)
-(yelling, commotion)
(engine roaring)
(light music playing)
♪
(birds chirping)
(majestic music playing)
Between demonstrations,
you are free to move about.
Mingle, but don't
put yourselves forward.
Miss Chattoway,
I think you will be best served
to stay by the stairs,
so as not to...
overwhelm.
Of course, all your "turns"
will be used to minimal effect.
The mission is to amuse.
Not alarm.
I know we'll make
a good impression.
I have every faith.
You'll also be wearing these.
So people can comfortably
identify you.
-Excuse me.
-Oh.
This doesn't go with
my dress at all.
♪
-(horse neighing)
-(indistinct chatter)
Right.
There we go.
Right. Let me look at you.
(knocking)
(panting)
Morning.
Is this where
the strange women go?
Désirée:
And we'll need a room
of our own.
-I'm sorry, Miss...
-Désirée.
Désirée Blodgett.
I usually just go
by the first name,
if you're wondering where
you've heard of me.
I haven't.
Désirée, Diva of Desire.
No? Well, I'm a whore.
A bit renowned.
I've cultivated
an impressive clientèle.
Especially given that
I'm not exactly Mitzi Dalti,
am I?
(sighs) Men.
They like talking to me.
It's part of the job,
sure, listening,
but last few years,
I get more and more clients.
Men of stature. Real flash.
And while we fuck--
Oh-- Nigel!
Hat!
Anyway, while we fuck,
they all gotta talk.
You know? Things they done,
or want, or mean to do,
and they ain't
exactly priests.
Well, a couple.
But they feel so relieved
gettin' it all out.
Except now,
they're not so relieved.
Me hearing everything
from everyone.
And yesternight, I find out
that one of me regulars--
the sweetest little man--
is planning on having me killed.
-How do you know?
-He told me.
During.
Crying so hard I thought
he was gonna propose.
They do sometimes.
And you have information
on these men?
Oh, fuck, no.
I can't remember a word.
I just need a place
for me and Nige
till the heat's come off.
Who sent you?
It's just, you're here
at a delicate time,
and I'm curious
who said to come.
Uh, my friend.
Well, he's a client.
I mean, we all
talk about this place.
Which client, exactly?
I'd rather not say.
And I don't remember?
-Do they think I'm an idiot?
-(laughs) They?
We've just been raided,
and you come here
to get away from "the heat."
It doesn't really
make sense, does it?
Though these days, what does?
I am an idiot.
I'm trying to find someone
the Beggar King can't trace
by looking at fucking
street plans.
I'm not from here.
And everyone wants to see.
The cops,
Bidlow's bridge cronies.
Now you.
So friendly. On the run.
The kid's a bit much,
but I like the commitment.
And Maladie's got no idea
what Mary's "turn" can do.
Mary is the voice
of the Galan--
Oh.
Huh.
-It's not just men.
-No.
I'm sorry,
you was very worked up,
and that's when my "turn"
works on people.
-When they're upset.
-Put on your coat.
Oh, just a couple
of nights. Please.
I forget everything,
personal guarantee,
and Nigel don't speak ever.
-I'm begging you--
-Put on your coat.
-(indistinct chatter)
-(typewriters clacking)
Why are you leaning on us?
She was fucking Touched.
She was attacking us.
She made me lonely.
With her mind.
Cop:
Wasn't her mind you
was grabbin' at, was it?
-(indistinct chatter)
-(typewriter keys clacking)
Man:
It's just not good enough,
is it?
Mundi. Two lovely ladies
to see you.
I'm off to drink lunch.
Come in.
Mrs. True.
I hope this means you have
something useful to say.
That depends.
-(gasps)
-Do you feel like talking?
I feel like talking about you
spendin' a week in a cell.
Amalia:
Who's in the picture with Mary?
So, so you're the detective now?
Yeah. All right. It's me.
It's over.
It's half a year
since I seen her.
The lads thought Maladie
might have taken Mary
'cause of me,
-but--
-It wasn't you.
But you still feel
responsible for Mary.
Still have that picture.
-Did she call it off?
-(laughs softly)
What, you, you, you think
I'd tell you that?
Just trot out me
personal affairs, yeah?
What, give me a whack
'round the face,
and I'll paint you a picture
of me last summer,
standing at the altar with
a flower in me button hole,
and no fucking bride.
Mmm? Engaged for
more than a year.
But she waits,
she waits till
me whole family's--
Oh, no, no, no.
Don't you judge her, though.
(tutting)
Don't you judge her.
Mary is a kind, caring woman.
She's just...
Oh, Christ, I wouldn't--
I wouldn't marry me, either.
Yeah, she-- Mary knew.
She knew the job
would take the toll,
but there's worse things.
-Yeah, there's things you--
-Stop.
Please. Stop.
(gun cocks)
(exhales)
Don't make me
take that away from you.
Fuck did she just do to me?
I'm going to find Maladie.
I've seen it happening.
What I don't know
is if I find her
before or after Mary's dead.
I needed to be sure you care
more about saving Mary
than catching Maladie.
'Cause I'll bet you that bullet
your orders say different.
You Touched...
You're worse than
the fucking toffs.
-(gun clicks)
-The order is to eliminate
Maladie at any cost.
No matter who gets hurt.
You win a bullet.
Mary dies...
(sniffles)
-(gun clicks)
-you win six.
A song.
That's Mary's "turn."
A song only the Touched
can hear.
What's it about?
Hope.
(train rumbling)
I want to hear it.
(chains rattling)
You sang for Maladie.
Now sing for me.
If you sing, and I hear it,
it means I'm finally Touched.
It means I'm worthy.
I can't.
And you're not.
Oh, Miss High and Mighty.
I'm working for my "turn."
Sacrifice.
You know?
I sacrificed my little toe.
(retching)
-But that wasn't enough.
-(coughing)
But every inch is
an inch closer to being...
Clara and Colonel:
Gifted by God.
Mmm. Chattering magpies,
while I do all the work.
Well, as it happens,
we did have some
turkey left over.
None for me, Colonel?
(Clara and Colonel
chuckling evilly)
(shrieks)
-Bonfire Annie: Hey!
-Aah!
Maladie said not to play
with this one.
She never said that.
You're not a believer, anyway.
You're just hired...
Bonfire Annie.
As it happens, Clara,
we're late for church.
Clara:
You're lucky we're late
for church.
-Are we late for church?
-Yes.
Psst. Annie.
We missed you.
We've got the name.
Mrs. Amalia True.
And the address.
What good's an address?
In terms of arson,
it's fairly crucial.
Yeah, but I'm not
looking for her.
I'm looking for her.
The entire of her.
The fuckin' soul, eh?
Get me something I could
shake at her.
A dolly. A pretty dolly.
All of London looking for us,
and you want me to--
Well, wear a fuckin' bonnet!
No! No, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no.
Don't be cross, eh?
We'll do a proper job
after this, yeah?
Yeah?
I don't mind crazy, boss.
I can't work with stupid.
(sighs)
(huffs)
Oh...
Now then... why'd you sing?
I'm...
-I'm not sure.
-T'other night.
-Pretty ditty, eh?
-(grunts)
Why?
I was afraid more people
would get hurt.
It comes when I'm afraid.
When I'm sad.
The song. It...
It... it helps.
I knew that you would
hear it,
and maybe...
It might be a reassurance.
A sense that you needn't
act only from pain.
No. I just meant...
have you always wanted
to be in the theater?
(camera bulb pops)
-(indistinct chatter)
-(lively violin music playing)
(partygoers exclaiming)
(applause and laughter)
Primrose:
We had such
a lovely time there.
Of course, my father is much
called away by his work.
They're in Zurich
for the season.
Your mother has found
a very cunning tailor, dear.
Vernal lace.
Hard to find by the yard.
Oh, it's not yards.
Do we smile, or...
(horrified gasp) perhaps?
Don't be an ass, Carl.
(pops)
(indistinct chatter)
Miss Adair.
Mr. Bidlow.
Miss Adair. Oh, no.
I, I just, I said that. Um...
(chuckles)
(exhales)
It's good of you to come.
Excuse me. Uh,
Augustus Bidlow, Lucy Best.
Augie. Very kind to meet you.
It's a thrill, ain't it?
(sniffs, clears throat)
(exhales)
It's... it's a lovely broach.
Elephant.
Penance made it for me.
'Memorate my mum.
She ran with the Forty Elephants
back in the day.
The gang?
Oh. How enterprising--
-Did you have something you--
-Uh, uh... There--
There are some paintings
-that I thought--
-From when I said how I like...
-paintings.
-Paintings. Yes, yes.
Uh, next room. Yes, yes.
Toff.
Oh, excuse me, sir.
Do you know Vickers Square?
Why don't you try Italy?
So... Should I be wearing
one of those ribbons?
Should we?
Hmm.
Did you know?
Before the opera?
Uh, not...
I mean, I've had moments,
where...
You see, I've always
been keen on birds, you know.
Like, um, particularly corvids.
That's crows and magpies
and jays.
Do you know,
they are often overlooked,
'cause people think
they're plain. Or, um...
Sorry.
I dreamt I was a crow.
A few times.
My, my, my wings out, just...
soaring over the countryside.
And then it happened
when I wasn't asleep.
In, um... church.
Oh, dear.
-It was a very dull sermon.
-I get so mad when they're dull.
You've got all the scripture
and you can't spin a tale.
-Exactly.
-(both chuckle)
Yes. But I...
I didn't nod off. I just--
I was in the pew,
and then suddenly
I was also in the sky.
Just racing over hills
and forests, and...
And I was controlling it.
Left and right.
Have you ever--
Sorry.
Is that how it works?
I don't--
Well, there's no two people
who have the same "turn." It--
-(indistinct chatter outside)
-Right.
But, um...
It's a feminine trait, isn't it?
Oh, there's men that have it.
So where does it lead?
What if I'm soaring about
every Sunday to come?
What if it happens,
and I can't come back?
(snickers)
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Um, I didn't, um...
I just thought
if you're up there,
then pity the poor magpie
that would be stuck listening
to that sermon.
-Oh!
-(both laugh)
-Oh, no. No.
-(laughing)
Dear. So cruel. Poor bird.
(laughs)
I am a monster.
You know you're not, though.
I don't...
-I mean, a person doesn't--
-How does it feel?
To fly?
It feels like flying.
(indistinct chatter)
(panting)
Hey. You there. Girl.
You one of them?
Now you brush right off,
young man.
Come on in.
Aw, you've had a time of it,
haven't you?
-We'll get you some tea.
-Thank you.
-(growling)
-(screams)
(heavy slam)
Mary:
Well, I sang pretty much
anywhere. Um...
But some of the pubs
were pretty grim.
But this bloke said that
he'd put me on the stage, and...
for once, that's what he meant.
Yeah, but it's not workin' out.
What?
You're a little fuckin' old
to be stuffed back
in the chorus.
Brayin' in time with nine girls
nine years your junior.
Eh? All... all this...
And never the brio
to make yourself heard.
What hobbled you?
-Were you harvested early, eh?
-(grunts)
Uncle or pastor
got you still green?
Hey. There is many
a lass that never finds
her voice then...
-What is it you're after?
-Thorns!
All I see is a crown.
God made me see.
He made me remember
the day He came.
Me alone.
How He sent His angels
in their white smocks
to unhouse my flesh.
Teach me glorious pain.
And I thought I'd been chosen
'cause I was special.
My agony's made me special,
but you...
You're nothing.
You're pleasant,
and He fills your throat.
Lets you make my pain little.
-Don't you sing it!
-(groans) I can't. I can't. I--
I can't feel it.
God, He mocks me with that song.
He mocks me, and He sends
a demon after me.
Demon?
The woman who sheds her skin.
Oh, she's coming.
She wants His song.
But you don't.
So why don't...
You could make her pay a ransom.
Look, my, my family,
we have a little put by,
and you, you would,
you would come out of it
with a profit--
Then everyone gets
what they want?
-(punches)
-(yells)
(groaning)
Maladie:
You fuckin' child.
I don't want what I want.
Go out in the world and show me
this magical symmetry.
It's broken.
It's designed to be broken.
Gears crushing gears.
He means for this to hurt.
I don't know where
my song comes from.
But God doesn't want us to hurt.
They say you shit when you hang.
Frank:
So, these ripplings.
They let you see the future,
but you can't control
when they come, or...
-what you see, or why.
-(door closes)
Every day's an adventure.
Can you change it?
Can, can you...
see the beach,
then go to the woods?
No.
So all you know is
you're punching Maladie.
-Do you feel anything?
-(liquid pouring)
Rage, or victory maybe,
or failure?
Mostly I feel calm.
I know where I am in a fight.
It's one of the few times I do.
I know what you mean.
I don't get the part where
you know what you mean.
I've had more experience
with violence
than I would have liked.
Your late husband?
It doesn't--
It's, it's not pertinent,
unless it gives you
an understanding of Maladie
we don't have.
Well, it's clear she was abused.
By a doctor, or doctors.
And probably as a child,
as well.
The confusion of pain
with pleasure...
the fierce religiosity.
Religious?
Uh, this is beyond blasphemy.
-She, she's mocking God.
-Amalia: No. She loves Him.
Fears Him.
Every powerful figure
who ever made her afraid,
made her helpless--
they're her understanding
of God.
She'd do anything to please Him.
How does Mary fit in?
I don't think she does.
Mary makes you feel love.
Feel loved.
Which is terrifying.
For someone who...
Someone like her.
Maladie felt a power
greater than pain.
Do you think Mary
might cure her?
Is it ever that simple?
Penance:
You see, people think
the electricity is in the wire.
But it's everywhere.
The air's thick with it,
and it, it moves. It circles.
And not just in the circuit,
but all across the air.
It's like a murmuration.
Um, a great horde of birds.
They're all moving as one,
and then suddenly...
-(makes whooshing sound)
-Oh, I've seen that!
-Oh, I could watch for hours,
how they wheel about.
-Harriet: Penance?
Miss Adair,
some of the gentlemen
have begun wagering on...
On whether Lucy can break
the statue of Aphrodite
in the garden.
Oh, no, no.
Uh, please, I need to--
No, of course. Go. Go, go, go.
-Go. (chuckles)
-(laughs softly)
Oh. Uh... you're in here.
You were missed at the party.
Oh, well, that would be a first.
People saw you walking away
with Miss Adair.
It was commented upon.
But they're our guests.
Lavinia:
No, they're not our guests.
They are my charity.
I brought them here
to help them.
To prove that the Touched
are not a threat.
Yet you seem determined
to prove that they are.
Miss Adair is every inch a lady.
She'd never overstep.
Is it every inch then?
(scoffs)
You cannot complete a sentence
without exposing yourself.
If the guests suspect
that Miss Adair
has social ambitions,
or is using a "turn"
to bewitch
a weak-minded bachelor,
the reports of this event
could be disastrous for us,
and possibly dangerous for her!
(exhales)
You always assume
the worst of everybody.
They seldom disappoint.
I am at fault.
You've been acting oddly
since the opera,
and I failed to notice why.
Well... all the murders...
There is a path
that cannot be trodden.
A private indiscretion
is one thing,
but you are not clever enough
to keep a mistress.
And we cannot have
a girl who is Touched,
and Irish, bear the Bidlow name.
If you regard Miss Adair,
you must think more
of her reputation,
and less of her...
every inch.
(pops)
(popping)
Lucy:
I'd never go about breaking
the Bidlow's precious things,
even for 50 quid.
You'd have to put it
up to a hundred.
Oh, I don't think that's, um...
Oh, um...
There was never a danger.
Just your friends having a joke.
Yes.
I, I did--
I did think of another,
um, example of how
your blackbirds--
Miss Adair,
I think we're all done.
Sorry?
Your girls.
Everybody's seen
all your tricks, and...
I think they'd like
to spend some time
without the entertainment.
Oh. Oh.
I enjoyed our conversation,
but, um...
I'm neglecting
my real friends,
so... excuse me.
(footsteps departing)
Um...
Do you mind if we go?
Prim's getting tired.
Yeah, I guess. Let's... yeah.
Why don't you scupper off?
Eh? We can get a ride home
with Prim.
Go on.
(speaks foreign languages)
-(continues speaking
foreign languages)
-Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh!
That was German.
Something with, with horses.
Sí, sí, ja.
-(tires screeching)
-(engine straining)
♪
(cawing)
(guests laughing)
(crow cawing)
♪
-(door closes)
-Are these the murder scenes
where the doctors were killed?
No. Where the gang holed up.
They move about at random.
Never the same place twice.
Warehouses. Church cellars.
Claridge's.
They kept the honeymoon suite
for three weeks.
The Colonel's "turn"
is to make you believe
anything he says.
Kept telling the manager
he was the Prince of Wales.
-(scoffs)
-I might become
an acolyte if that's how--
-(blows landing)
-(Maladie laughing evilly)
(panting)
Something happen?
Not yet.
Is there a ladies'
washroom nearby?
-Three confessions in a row?
-It's called police work...
-Oh!
-Inspector Mundi will come
looking for me
in about 10 minutes.
Give him this.
Tell him to keep
his men quiet.
See you at home.
(footsteps departing)
(indistinct chatter)
-(barrel thuds)
-(exhales)
(sighs)
(horn blowing)
(horse neighs)
Hague: (clears throat)
♪ Oh  ♪
♪ Do you have a doll
for sale ♪
♪ With hair so blond
and skin so pale ♪
♪ I've got the ring,
I've got the veil ♪
♪ I only need my doll ♪
You are a very special person.
You know why?
(laughs)
Neither do I. (giggles)
I keep looking for that spark.
The Touch.
But darn it--
(speaking Italian)
Maybe your darkness
is part of her plan.
I mean His. But she's in on it.
We're silly.
This will be unbearable.
-(machine whining)
-(whimpering)
Assistant: Dr. Hague.
You're wanted at the site.
-(powers down)
-Another change?
Assistant:
No.
-The boss is coming to see us.
-Hague: Yeah, but I'm--
I've given you facts
that I have.
How soon?
♪
(thuds open)
(machine clanking)
-(exotic music playing)
-(indistinct chatter)
(people laughing)
(machinery rumbling)
(distant laughter)
-(flames roaring)
-Bonfire Annie: Wrong way, dear.
(exotic music playing)
Woman (whispers echoing):
Find... Find me...
Find me inside me.
(whispers echoing):
Can it be all...
(indistinct chatter)
-(Maladie laughing)
-(running footsteps)
(flames roaring)
You could have just
put up signs.
Hugo:
Augustus Cyril Aspinal Bidlow.
(laughs)
Augustus was an emperor.
He conquered Egypt.
And he was never described
as a weak-minded bachelor.
I've had a spot of brandy.
A spot? You've had
the whole Dalmatian.
This is the finest party
I've been to all day.
(laughs)
Well, what sort of sport
do we think
would suit you, chum? Hmm?
-I--
-Greta over there
can make both of her--
Oh, look. Look.
She's doing it now.
Oh...
-(people laughing, clapping)
-She's... Touched.
By greatness, I'd say.
I thought...
I, I thought you didn't
know anything about the Touched.
Oh, no. No. The, the day,
the day of the opera--
Was a revelation.
Thank God you made me come.
The Touched are the future.
Particularly, your future.
What do you--
Well, I'm certainly--
Massen thinks the Touched
are a plague.
I think they're a goldmine.
One that I have dug out.
All I need is a small,
uh, investment. Ha.
How much?
Well, to get started,
shall we say, uh, nothing?
Augie, I don't need money.
It's your name I find fetching.
Bidlow on the contracts--
It lends a legitimacy.
Keeps the legal woes at bay.
More importantly,
we can be partners.
We are forever second sons,
you and I.
Worse, my older brother is dead,
and yours is a woman.
It's time we made our mark.
The Touched are the future.
(moaning)
And these two lovely girls
are the present.
Augie:
Oh, no, Hugo.
No, I can't.
Sorry. So sorry.
I don't mean to--
Oh...
(giggling)
Oh, no! You found me.
You did put up a sign.
-Where's Mary?
-First you have to shed.
-Shed?
-Maladie: Ugh!
-I have to do everything myself.
-(electricity charging)
-(explodes)
-(Maladie yells, grunts)
-(punching)
-(grunting)
-(yelling)
Aah!
-(crashes)
-(steam hissing)
(thwacks)
(punching, grunting)
(gears grinding)
(panting)
There's a German philosopher...
(pants)
Very well-respected...
Said a say
about all the things...
-(thwacks)
-(groans)
That don't kill you...
Would you like to
beat me some more?
All your pain.
Your rage.
At some point,
it's what you are.
And pain despises hope.
I know.
But Mary's song isn't just hope.
We can gather people like us,
and make sure your angels
can't hurt anyone else.
But I don't care about
anyone else.
No, wait. You...
don't care about anyone else.
I care about Mary.
Oh, is she your new best friend?
Is she your new best friend?
I don't know how to do this.
This riddle-me shit.
It's beneath you.
Well, uh...
(panting)
No, it isn't.
(lights clicking)
(dramatic music playing)
She can drop,
and you can shed.
You're the woman
who sheds her skin.
-You mean my dress.
-I mean, your friends.
I mean, well, you know,
"A friend's the one you trust
to trust you back."
Molly.
Sarah.
Sarah, I didn't...
Oh, God, I didn't know
what happened to you.
-I thought--
-What happened?
You fed me to them.
I woke up every morning
in their teeth that chewed me.
Cut me.
Raped me into tiny bits
and then put me back
and then ground me up
and then put me back.
And then two whole years
of screaming
while you dined on beef
and ground it up
and never cared
and never looked.
You said you were my friend!
I'm sorry.
I didn't have a choice.
(sobs)
Because you had a mission.
Yeah. Well, God gave me
a mission, too.
So now you do have a choice.
If Mary is your new best friend,
you must be done with that one.
(whimpering)
Annie and the boys
fetched her.
She heard you're supposed
to be inseparable.
But we know you.
See how they's connected?
One drops, the other goes, too.
Like friends.
Shoot one,
you get to keep the other.
(chuckles) Shoot me,
well, obviously...
(imitates choking)
(giggles)
I do have a mission.
I didn't ask for it.
I'm not cut out for it.
But it matters.
(crying)
And it requires sacrifice.
-(gunshot)
-(thuds)
-(whimpering)
-Maladie (screams): No! No!
No. Not this. This is a cheat!
No. I can't hurt you
if you leave me.
The mission, Sarah.
Needs them.
-Come on...
-Not me.
-Maladie: No...
-And not you.
-(gunshot)
-(thuds)
(panting)
(distant whistles blowing)
Close in. Now.
(clamoring)
-(punches)
-(grunts)
Maladie:
Time to go.
Mrs. True.
Cop:
Back off!
Frank:
Mrs. True, can you hear me?
Dr. Cousens!
Dr. Horatio Cousens.
45 Beckett Lane, now!
Now!
(energy humming)
Mary?
Horatio:
She's fine.
Okay.
Good job. Thank you both.
You nearly died,
you great idiot!
You nearly died.
But not by my own hand!
There's not a place in Heaven
for them who scorn
the gift of life.
I knew Horatio would have time
to sew me back up.
I missed the vital organs,
silly.
-No, you didn't!
-No, you didn't.
-Oh. I thought--
-Either you don't know anatomy,
or you don't know
how to aim.
Well, it was a bad gun.
You rest up now.
You, too.
All right, girls.
You can bother Mrs. True
in a couple of days.
-Days.
-I know. I promise.
♪
(breathes deeply, exhales)
There's something
about Maladie that I--
No. There's loads
I'll need explained,
but let's just be alive
for awhile.
Frank:
You sure about staying here?
Maladie's still about.
Well, they seem to be
the people best prepared
to handle her.
Yeah, but...
Don't you think
it's all a bit...
They're odd.
I'm odd.
It's odd, what I do.
I've been ignoring it, Frank.
Ignored a lot of things.
Which you know that I do.
Being Touched...
-Is that why you didn't
go through with the wed--
-Please, Frank.
I'm so tired.
Of course.
Can I call on ya?
I mean, I have to.
Official questions,
you know, and...
-Unless you'd prefer
someone else--
-No, no, no. No.
You can call.
♪
I'm sorry for your terrible day.
You know, I always thought
that I'd be the one
saying that to you.
-(door closes)
-(exhales)
(shovels clanging)
Not a word about
why it had to be tonight?
Assistant:
I'm sorry, doctor.
I can discern emotion
when I see a face.
But telephones...
Angry people get louder,
but also quieter.
Ah, you are
an incomplete machine.
All people are.
That's how it works.
(makes whooshing sound)
Aah!
No, what matter the time,
this has to be seen.
A little miracle.
-Three days ago--
-(distant clanging)
Wait, go, go, go.
-(metal bangs)
-(clattering)
Hague:
Aah.
I was just saying,
a few days ago,
dark as the day we found it,
and now...
Ain't we got fun?
♪
You are an American,
and confounded by
the mother tongue.
This is not fun.
This is war.
(shovels digging)
♪
(growling)
(lively violins playing)
♪
AMALIA TRUE: Everyone
keeps secrets.
Every Touched keeps
a great deal more.
♪ (DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYS) ♪
I want you to join us
at the Orphanage.
Is that the mission you were
going on about?
Mary brings in all the Touched,
then we overthrow the monarchy?
Nothing that grand,
or that small.
So, what is Mrs. True
up to now?
She has a purpose.
And now she has Mary.
MARY BRIGHTON: I've asked
the girls what this case is,
they all have different answers.
(GRUNTING)
You want me to sing so then
more people will come here?
Maybe I'm struggling because
I don't know if they should.
♪ (SLOW, DRAMATIC OUTRO PLAYS) ♪
♪ (DARK ORCHESTRAL
MUSIC PLAYS) ♪
The gala is a charitable event
which is intended to demonstrate
to polite society
how presentable
and well-mannered
-the Touched can be.
-(CERAMIC SHATTERS)
(APPLAUSE)
It's this kind of charity
which is now considered
politically incorrect.
ANNA DEVLIN:
Initially, the gala
is to kind of try and integrate
the Touched
into the London social life.
ANN SKELLY: There's not a lot
understood about the Touched,
so I think there's a lot of fear
and ignorance
towards people who are Touched.
The gala is to try and give
a feeling back to society
that, whatever
they may have seen,
or whatever the papers
may be saying,
actually, these people are okay.
Of course, all your turns
will be used to minimal effect.
The mission is to amuse.
You'll also be wearing these...
so people can comfortably
identify you.
KIRAN SONIA SAWAR:
As Touched people, some
of our powers aren't visible.
-(GLASSY TINKLING)
-(AUDIENCE GASPING)
Harriet's definitely not happy
about having to wear
the ribbons.
It's actually quite dark.
OLIVIA WILLIAMS: All the women
just want to be normal,
and want to be at a party
and wear a pretty dress
and be considered normal parts
of society,
and society insists
on compartmentalizing them
and separating them.
SKELLY: I don't think they think
too much of it.
It's just another way
of othering us.
DEVLIN: They turn from people
into amusements.
They're there to be funny now,
and not to be scary.
You can wonder at them.
Do we smile? Or-- (GASPS)
Perhaps?
Don't be an ass, Carl.
There's a lot of green-screen...
in the making of Primrose.
There's also a platform
that I have to stand on
quite a lot of the time
that actually brings me up
to Primrose height,
but we also have
a Primrose doll,
which is my exact proportions
but Primrose size.
It's strange enough just to see
myself, like, in a picture,
but then to see a model
of myself, but double,
is quite scary.
JOHNNY HAN: So, to achieve
the Primrose effect,
we've got a whole bag
of different tricks.
When she's getting photographed
at the party,
we actually use two cameras
simultaneously,
where we had one camera
as a master camera
showing she's standing
against a staircase,
and there're these spectators
who are taking a photo with her.
And then, we have another camera
on Primrose,
who is still standing there
in front of them,
but she's at her normal height.
But the second camera is half
the distance closer to her
and half the height.
So, we have her on green screen,
and then,
with our video mixing team,
in real time,
they're compositing it
so that the director
and the DOP
and all of us can watch
on monitors,
seeing Primrose in real time,
looking like a giant
from camera one's point of view.
I gotta hand it to Anna.
She's amazing,
dealing with visual effects
and the process
that we put her through.
-CREWMEMBER: And roll camera!
-CREWMEMBER 2: Rolling!
GEMMA JACKSON: The Bidlow Estate
is a pretty fabulous place
in its own right.
What was really nice
about using West Wickham,
which is where that one was,
was that the lovely staircase,
it was perfect for Primrose
and having the photographs
taken and everything.
It was just spot-on.
The interiors of this place
are sort of legendary
in architectural history.
And then,
the sets were beautiful.
The flowers, the food. I mean,
the heartbreaking thing is,
you know, if you actually try
to eat any of this stuff,
you'd be poisoned,
but it looked beautiful.
The house lent itself to
some beautiful autumnal colors
of flowers, which we spiraled
around the marble columns
and had climbing up
the stairway.
JACKSON: We just went to town,
Tina and myself.
It just begs to be dressed,
really.
CHRISTINE BLUNDELL:
All of the people
that went to the gala
basically had people at home
that would help curl their hair,
but the girls
from the orphanage
were styled pretty much how
they are on an everyday look.
You know, they kind of all
help each other out
with their hair and things.
We worked that out early on.
MICHELE CLAPTON:
We had a lot of costumes
made for the Bidlow House,
'cause I wanted the palette
to be so precise.
The class system was rife then
in Victorian times.
The best way to illustrate it
in some ways is palette.
We wanted pale and beautiful,
not too sugary,
but sort of lovely
pale pistachios and peach,
and just this lightness
and this beauty.
Then, into that,
we bring the Touched,
who look a bit drab
by comparison
except for Penance,
who we wanted to make
look rather pretty...
but actually rather dated,
so her silhouette,
it's not really of the time.
It's something that was
obviously handed down to her,
but she still look gorgeous.
Did you have something you...
Uh, uh-- yeah.
There are some paintings
I thought that you would be--
-From when I said
how I like paintings.
-Paintings. Yes.
TOM RILEY: Augie's most excited
to see Penance
at the gala because
not only was he very taken
with her at the opera,
but in locking eyes with her
at the very moment
that he realized he was Touched,
she, too,
witnessed who he truly was.
And she is very willing and open
and prepared
to hear his thoughts and listen,
in a way that other people
won't listen to him.
I am a monster.
You know you're not, though.
SKELLY: It is Penance's job
a lot of the time
to help people understand,
what's happened to them
is okay, and it's actually--
can be a good thing.
But the one thing
that really surprises her
is that they have
a mutual passion
in different ways, like,
their turns come from
a passion they have. Like,
she loves inventing things,
and he loves, you know, birds,
and they really bond over that.
So, I think Penance gets to step
out of the role of therapist,
and they actually share more
than just, like, a little spark.
Like a murmuration.
Um... a great horde of birds...
they're all moving as one,
and then suddenly,
Oh, I've seen that.
Oh, I could watch for hours.
RILEY:
They're both able to nerd out
and not feel judged at all
by the other one,
and that's something that
Augie's never had before.
And I think he feels seen
for the first time by her.
You were missed at the party.
That would be a first.
Lavinia's imperfect to her core,
and not only has she got
very politically incorrect ideas
about difference and disability,
she's also a snob,
and doesn't want
her brother getting
romantically involved
with someone
from a different class,
never mind someone
who is Touched.
You always assume the worst
of everybody.
They seldom disappoint.
Lavinia's motivations,
as always, are very complicated,
and it's meant
to be complicated.
We want you to wonder, is she
trying to hurt the Touched,
or is she trying to help them?
How much does she know
about what's going on?
At the end of this episode,
we learn that
she knows some stuff
we didn't think she knew.
We want you to be asking all
those questions about Lavinia.
This is war.
♪ (MUSIC SWELLS, CONCLUDES) ♪